## Front-end

As the front-end of the web application is where most (but not all) of the user input is taken from, it is essential to sanitize and validate the user input on the front-end using JavaScript.

# Input Validation

For example, in the exercise of the `XSS Discovery` section, we saw that the web application will not allow us to submit the form if the email format is invalid. This was done with the following JavaScript code:

```javascript
function validateEmail(email) {
    const re = /^(([^<>()[\]\\.,;:\s@\"]+(\.[^<>()[\]\\.,;:\s@\"]+)*)|(\".+\"))@((\[[0-9]{1,3}\.[0-9]{1,3}\.[0-9]{1,3}\.[0-9]{1,3}\])|(([a-zA-Z\-0-9]+\.)+[a-zA-Z]{2,}))$/;
    return re.test($("#login input[name=email]").val());
}
```
# Input Sanitization
In addition to input validation, we should always ensure that we do not allow any input with JavaScript code in it, by escaping any special characters. For this, we can utilize the [DOMPurify](https://github.com/cure53/DOMPurify) JavaScript library, as follows:

```javascript
<script type="text/javascript" src="dist/purify.min.js"></script>
let clean = DOMPurify.sanitize( dirty );
```

This will escape any special characters with a backslash `\`, which should help ensure that a user does not send any input with special characters (like JavaScript code), which should prevent vulnerabilities like DOM XSS.
# Direct Input

Finally, we should always ensure that we never use user input directly within certain HTML tags, like:

1. JavaScript code `<script></script>`
2. CSS Style Code `<style></style>`
3. Tag/Attribute Fields `<div name='INPUT'></div>`
4. HTML Comments `<!-- -->`

If user input goes into any of the above examples, it can inject malicious JavaScript code, which may lead to an XSS vulnerability. In addition to this, we should avoid using JavaScript functions that allow changing raw text of HTML fields, like:

- `DOM.innerHTML`
- `DOM.outerHTML`
- `document.write()`
- `document.writeln()`
- `document.domain`

And the following jQuery functions:

- `html()`
- `parseHTML()`
- `add()`
- `append()`
- `prepend()`
- `after()`
- `insertAfter()`
- `before()`
- `insertBefore()`
- `replaceAll()`
- `replaceWith()`

# Back-end

On the other end, we should also ensure that we prevent XSS vulnerabilities with measures on the back-end to prevent Stored and Reflected XSS vulnerabilities. 

As we saw in the `XSS Discovery` section exercise, even though it had front-end input validation, this was not enough to prevent us from injecting a malicious payload into the form. So, we should have XSS prevention measures on the back-end as well. 

This can be achieved with Input and Output Sanitization and Validation, Server Configuration, and Back-end Tools that help prevent XSS vulnerabilities.

# Input Validation

Input validation in the back-end is quite similar to the front-end, and it uses Regex or library functions to ensure that the input field is what is expected. If it does not match, then the back-end server will reject it and not display it.

An example of E-Mail validation on a PHP back-end is the following:

```php
if (filter_var($_GET['email'], FILTER_VALIDATE_EMAIL)) {
    // do task
} else {
    // reject input - do not display it
}
```

For a NodeJS back-end, we can use the same JavaScript code mentioned earlier for the front-end.As these functions write raw text to the HTML code, if any user input goes into them, it may include malicious JavaScript code, which leads to an XSS vulnerability.
For a NodeJS back-end, we can use the same JavaScript code mentioned earlier for the front-end.

# Output HTML Encoding

Another important aspect to pay attention to in the back-end is `Output Encoding`. This means that we have to encode any special characters into their HTML codes, which is helpful if we need to display the entire user input without introducing an XSS vulnerability. For a PHP back-end, we can use the `htmlspecialchars` or the `htmlentities` functions, which would encode certain special characters into their HTML codes (e.g. `<` into `&lt;`), so the browser will display them correctly, but they will not cause any injection of any sort: 
```php
htmlentities($_GET['email']);
```

For a NodeJS back-end, we can use any library that does HTML encoding, like `html-entities`, as follows:

```javascript
import encode from 'html-entities';
encode('<'); // -> '&lt;'
```

# Server Configuration

In addition to the above, there are certain back-end web server configurations that may help in preventing XSS attacks, such as:

- Using HTTPS across the entire domain.
- Using XSS prevention headers.
- Using the appropriate Content-Type for the page, like `X-Content-Type-Options=nosniff`.
- Using `Content-Security-Policy` options, like `script-src 'self'`, which only allows locally hosted scripts.
- Using the `HttpOnly` and `Secure` cookie flags to prevent JavaScript from reading cookies and only transport them over HTTPS.
In addition to the above, having a good `Web Application Firewall (WAF)`
some frameworks provide built-in XSS protection, like [ASP.NET](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/security/cross-site-scripting?view=aspnetcore-7.0).





# CSP HEADER
Content security policy (CSP) is a browser mechanism that aims to mitigate the impact of cross-site scripting and some other vulnerabilities. If an application that employs CSP contains XSS-like behavior, then the CSP might hinder or prevent exploitation of the vulnerability. Often, the CSP can be circumvented to enable exploitation of the underlying vulnerability.

CSP is a browser security mechanism that aims to mitigate XSS and some other attacks. It works by restricting the resources (such as scripts and images) that a page can load and restricting whether a page can be framed by other pages.
The following directive will only allow scripts to be loaded from the [same origin](https://portswigger.net/web-security/cors/same-origin-policy) as the page itself:

`script-src 'self'`

The following directive will only allow scripts to be loaded from a specific domain:

`script-src https://scripts.normal-website.com`
