
## User Privileges

As discussed initially, DBMS software allows the creation of users with fine-grained permissions. We should ensure that the user querying the database only has minimum permissions.

Superusers and users with administrative privileges should never be used with web applications. These accounts have access to functions and features, which could lead to server compromise.

  Mitigating SQL Injection

```shell-session
MariaDB [(none)]> CREATE USER 'reader'@'localhost';

Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.002 sec)


MariaDB [(none)]> GRANT SELECT ON ilfreight.ports TO 'reader'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'p@ssw0Rd!!';

Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.000 sec)
```

The commands above add a new MariaDB user named `reader` who is granted only `SELECT` privileges on the `ports` table. We can verify the permissions for this user by logging in:

  Mitigating SQL Injection

```shell-session
mysql -u reader -p

MariaDB [(none)]> use ilfreight;
MariaDB [ilfreight]> SHOW TABLES;

+---------------------+
| Tables_in_ilfreight |
+---------------------+
| ports               |
+---------------------+
1 row in set (0.000 sec)


MariaDB [ilfreight]> SELECT SCHEMA_NAME FROM INFORMATION_SCHEMA.SCHEMATA;

+--------------------+
| SCHEMA_NAME        |
+--------------------+
| information_schema |
| ilfreight          |
+--------------------+
2 rows in set (0.000 sec)


MariaDB [ilfreight]> SELECT * FROM ilfreight.credentials;
ERROR 1142 (42000): SELECT command denied to user 'reader'@'localhost' for table 'credentials'
```

The snippet above confirms that the `reader` user cannot query other tables in the `ilfreight` database. The user only has access to the `ports` table that is needed by the application.

---

## Web Application Firewall

Web Application Firewalls (WAF) are used to detect malicious input and reject any HTTP requests containing them. This helps in preventing SQL Injection even when the application logic is flawed. WAFs can be open-source (ModSecurity) or premium (Cloudflare). Most of them have default rules configured based on common web attacks. For example, any request containing the string `INFORMATION_SCHEMA` would be rejected, as it's commonly used while exploiting SQL injection.

---

## Parameterized Queries

Another way to ensure that the input is safely sanitized is by using parameterized queries. Parameterized queries contain placeholders for the input data, which is then escaped and passed on by the drivers. Instead of directly passing the data into the SQL query, we use placeholders and then fill them with PHP functions.

Consider the following modified code:

Code: php

```php
<SNIP>
  $username = $_POST['username'];
  $password = $_POST['password'];

  $query = "SELECT * FROM logins WHERE username=? AND password = ?" ;
  $stmt = mysqli_prepare($conn, $query);
  mysqli_stmt_bind_param($stmt, 'ss', $username, $password);
  mysqli_stmt_execute($stmt);
  $result = mysqli_stmt_get_result($stmt);

  $row = mysqli_fetch_array($result);
  mysqli_stmt_close($stmt);
<SNIP>
```

The query is modified to contain two placeholders, marked with `?` where the username and password will be placed. We then bind the username and password to the query using the [mysqli_stmt_bind_param()](https://www.php.net/manual/en/mysqli-stmt.bind-param.php) function. This will safely escape any quotes and place the values in the query.

---

## Conclusion

The list above is not exhaustive, and it could still be possible to exploit SQL injection based on the application logic. The code examples shown are based on PHP, but the logic applies across all common languages and libraries.